---
title: "RIDE-2"
permalink: /projects/RIDE2/
excerpt: "Riverine Dynamics Experiment 2."
last_modified_at: 2017-04-06
---

Riverine Dynamics Experiment 2 - in collaboration with Aret\'e Associates, 2 day field campaign in the Hudson River Estuary in 2010. Related the scales of turbulence determined from IR imagery directly to the subsurface scales of turbulence demonstrating the ability to remotely estimate riverine flow rate, subsurface turbulence and bathymetry under low speed winds. Evaluated the validity of several bulk-skin temperature models. Quantified the gust signature in both large and small-scale water surface skin temperature (Tskin) variability and investigated surface roughness effects generated by the wind gusts which have the potential to both physically disrupt the Tskin as well as change the surface electromagnetic properties. Analysis of ship based IR imagery: calibration, sky-temperature correction, re-projection, optical flow, particle image velocimetry, 3D spectral analysis do determine advective flow, determination of coherent feature sizes. Analysis of cliff based imagery: advective signal enhancement through 3D Fourier filtering, tracking gust signatures and characterizing their size and propagation speeds. 

Office of Naval Research Awards N00014-11-1-0922 and N00014-15-1-2153.


{% capture notice-text %}
*  **Brumer**, **S.E.**, C.J. Zappa, S.P. Anderson and J.P. Dugan (2016). Riverine Skin Temperature Response to Subsurface Processes in Low Wind Speeds, *J. Geophys. Res. Oceans*, 121, doi:10.1002/2015JC010746. [pdf]({{ site.url }}/assets/Brumer_2016_JGR 10.1002-2015JC010746.pdf)
{% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--info">
  <h4>Publications:</h4>
  {{ notice-text | markdownify }}
</div>